# Database-Independent-Object-Mapper
## Structure
The structure contains a back-end core consisting of the base Template class and the interdatabase relational algebra functionality. This back-end core contains all functions available to the user. In template.py, all database specific functions and their abstractly defined methods can be found, whereas the relational algebraic functionality is contained in ra.py.
Within the datastores folder, the database specific functions can be defined within a class that directly inherits the template class provided in template.py. These classes are divided into unique files so only the needed database class has to be downloaded. Each database specific file must create all abstractly defined methods within the template to allow for usage.
The front-end contains the database schemas and the database connections. These need to be easily accessible to the user so they can be edited to fit the users specific data needs. The established connections in the connections file are imported by the database specific classes, so those know how to access their respective databases. The schema must import the necessary database specific classes, such that the user created schema classes can inherit from them. Additionally, the schema must also inherit the RA class from the core to be able to use the functions contained within, but this does not need to be specifically inherited by the schema class itself.

## Usage
To make use of this project, the files in the core and front_end folders need to be downloaded, along with the specific database connection wanted from the datastores folder. 
Once the correct files are installed, the application can be used. To use the implementation, the first step is to assign a database connection in the front end. This database connection tells the implementation where to store the data, and is e.g. a local file location, or a link to a server. The second step is assigning a data schema to be used by the database. An example schema for all three implemented databases is currently present in the schema file. Make note of the small, necessary addition to the SQLAlchemy schema, which needs a table and primary key definition assigned. These schema classes are how the data is stored, and all functions present in the template take them as input or output. Furthermore, the schema defined class names can be used as input for the RA functionality present in the core. 
In the event that you want to use a database that is not currently supported, a class that does support it can be created in a new file. To add one such class, two steps need to be completed. 
The first step is the addition of a connection to that database, added to the connection file in the front end, with which the functions can access the database. The new class must import this connection to be used, to make switching database connections easier, as it happens fully within the connection file. 
The second is the template inheritance. The newly created class has to inherit the template class in the core, and make sure all abstract functions assigned there are created in the newly created class for the new database, making sure input and output signatures are respected. Additionally, the already implemented functions in the template class may also be created within the new class, if this database has operations to perform those tasks faster. 
The ra file does not have to be changed to allow use of a new database. Assuming that the input and output signatures of the template class have been adhered to, the relational algebra functions should be able to use these to perform their tasks. Additionally, the schema does not need to be changed, as it references the newly created database class, which will have been created with the schema in mind. 

## Functions
It is important to know what functions exist, and what their input and output signatures are, to be able to use them. As such, the available functions and their input/output signature will be presented. Examples for each function will be included in the main.py file.
### Template Functions
- save: Saves an instantiated object. Uses only the object to be saved as input. No output is returned. 
 - mass_save: Class method that saves data. Input consists of the class it is called on and a list containing dictionaries with the respective schema structure. No output is returned.
 - delete: Deletes an instantiated user. Uses only the object to be deleted as input. No output is returned. 
 - mass_delete: Class method that deletes data. Input consists of the class it is called on and a list containing the ids to be deleted. No output is returned.
 - find_all: Class method that returns all data corresponding to a Class. Input consists of the class it is called on. Output is a list of all data as class objects.
 - find_by_id: Class method that returns data corresponding to an input id. Input consists of the class it is called o, and a provided id. Output is a class object.
 - find_by_field: Class method that returns data corresponding to a provided query. Input consists of the class it is called on, a provided query, and a boolean defining whether to return a single or multiple outputs. The Output is either a class object, if only one match is sought, or a list of class objects if multiple matches are sought. 
    The provided query takes as input a dictionary assigning what query functionality to use. The value of this dictionary can be a simple string to signify a direct match, or another query layer that assigns a different operation. As such, this query input should look like {field: "value"} or {field: {operation: "value"}}. Additionally, this structure allows for multiple query restrictions, even on the same field, assuming that all restrictions must be true at once, such as {field1: "value1", field2: "value2"} or {field: {$gt: num1, $lte: num2}}. The possible operations here are as follows:
     - $sub: Finds all values with the provided value as a substring.
     - $regex: Allows the user to input a regex pattern.
     - Numeric operators: Allows the user to search on numeric values with the operations "$gt", "$gte", "$lt", "$lte", "$eq", "$ne".
 - save_to_json: Class method that saves all data in a provided class to a JSON file. Inputs consist of the Class it is called on and the path location where to save the JSON file. Output returned is the created file path.
 - load_from_json: Class method that loads all data in a JSON file to the provided class. Inputs consist of the Class it is called on and the path location where the JSON file is saved. No output is returned.
 - purge_data: Class method that deletes all data in a provided class. Input is the class it is called on. No output is returned.

### Relational Algebraic Functions
 - Join: Joins two provided classes, either as a Cartesian Join, or based on matching fields. The input consists of two provided Class objects, either from data schemas, or returned from RA functions, and optionally a list containing tuples of matching fields. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Select: Performs selection on one provided class. The input consists of one provided Class object, either from a schema or returned from RA functions, and a query map, structured the exact same as the find_by_field query map. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Union_op: Performs a Union on two provided data classes. Name had to be extended with "_op" to ensure it did not clash with the Union type. The input consists of two provided Class objects, either from data schemas or returned from RA functions. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Difference: Performs the set Difference between two provided data classes. The input consists of two provided Class objects, either from data schemas or returned from RA functions. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Intersect: Performs the set Intersection between two provided data classes. The input consists of two provided Class objects, either from data schemas or returned from RA functions. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Projection: Performs Projection on the provided data class. The input consists of one provided Class object, either from a schema or returned from RA functions, and a list of the fields to project. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Rename: Performs a Rename on the provided data class. The input consists of one provided Class object, either from a schema or returned from RA functions, and a dictionary containing the old field name with the new field name it should be renamed into. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Order: Performs an Ordering on the provided data class. The input consists of one provided Class object, either from a schema or returned from RA functions, and a list containing either the fields to be ordered on, or a tuple of fields matched with an ascending or descending specifier. Ascending is assumed if neither is provided. Output consists of a Class object. 
 - Distinct: Removes duplicate rows from the provided data class. The input consists of one provided Class object, either from a schema or returned from RA functions, and an optional list of fields that should be checked for duplication, and a string to signify whether to keep the first or last found duplicate. If the field list is not provided, all fields are taken into account, and it will thus not matter if the first or last duplicate is kept. Output consists of a Class object. 
